And
he got up and left, and that's where he's going. He
said, I'm going to go over here. I didn't realize
how smart he was. Because they said Jackie right
now next to me. And Jackie was the kind of person who
would never really talk to you eye to eye. And he had
just come back from the Jack Nicklaus Golf School.
And he was talking to a tabbed paper while he was
talking to me, and he was writing on that, and he
basically said anybody could be a golf coach. That
is the easiest thing in the world. I mean, my gosh,
what could be easier? You just lay the scoreboard,
and say, that guy can play, he can get it, yeah,
that's it, you know. And what Nicholas taught me
down there at that school, you know, anybody can do
it. And I wasn't real pleased
with it. Um, It was when Jackie
brought in John Davis. He was good to me. He was good
to me. He was always good to me and good
to my family. And Wally. Wally's son has always
been good to me and good to my family.
Well, just a second. I just thought of something
else. Wally was, and then I had my first woman.
First woman I had to work for. She was AD over at UPSA
Lynn Higgins. And then when Lynn left and they
would be over there, then there was an interim. Now
Mike Caruso is my athletic director.
He's Associate
Athletic Director for Sports
Promotion in the All-Star Athletic League.
Thanks, Ken. Some of the time, I would climb to his
day. It was his first year there. because all
the afternoon
support was there. Now, at that time, there wasn't
the academic support, like I said. I figured I'd
leave them until Jackie came. He wasn't real
strong. I couldn't afford academic support. But I
remember one time, they were looking for NCAA
rules, but he couldn't find any rules. I got a call
from one of them. What's that rule? They were
looking out for rules, but nobody had them. Not
every coach had them. But anyway... uh we won them
over there and it was really a neat thing to be over
there because it was kind of isolated it was brand
new it was really state-of-the-art food's great
to this day and we kind of wanted them over there and
then with that additional academic community we
wanted over there because of that
well
we try to keep it uh, like, uh, 12 hours, and then
taking them to golf. We're keeping that at 13
hours, and we try to give them as much of a basic
course as we could. We want them to have an English,
a history, maybe a political science, a geology, a
psychology, something like that. Um, but keep it
where it isn't just going to be as overwhelming as
it's supposed to be. At that time, it was tough, but
it's not like it's not. I had a kid last year. I
mean, he was a nervous wreck. And I said, Wayne, are
you going to be able to do this? And I said, really?
Think about it. Are you going to be able to do this?
And he had a tough time. He just made under on one
point, and then he really turned around there, and
he could take his final search.
Well, we did the academics, and I remember sitting
in my office a lot of times,
at school work, and yelling into tell these office
what about prof so-and-so who's a good teacher for
for math you know a certain math or who's this who
will help out the athletes and the coaches
basically realize themselves who the the best
teachers
were no sir i sure don't i do remember The lady, I
can't remember her name, maybe you know. She
handled all transfer students. White haired lady
over there, Mrs. Mitchell. And I tell you what, she
was just boom, boom, boom, black and white. But she
had a heart
of gold. What did she say?
Well,
in
the future, you know, maybe 215, and with the
realization, hey, we're going to be playing a
little more golf in the fall, you need to pay close
attention. In those days, too, you had contact
with the professor, and you'd call him up, and now
you can't do that. So you kind of get, you're in
person, and you have to go see that person.
No, not too many. I do remember Danny. Danny was
kind of unusual. He didn't know whether he wanted
to be an actor or a golfer. But he won the Southwest
Conference. And he was a very talented vocalist,
pianist, guitarist. He was a good actor. He could
have made a good living in that field. And he
decided, no, I want to play golf. And he had a little
bit of great trouble And I do remember talking to a
cop about Danny and saying how badly we need him.
And if there's any way you could see, you know, to
help him, it would help us a lot. And he did. He
helped and got Danny through. But nothing
illegal, at least I was aware of. Now it would be.
We
were usually pretty good. We were usually pretty
good. And then I got some guys that weren't that
good. We were like a 2-2 overall team. Yes, a lot of
them were. Yes.
Not
so much. They basically, pretty much stayed with
golf and hung around with themselves, and they
would, they'd have parties amongst themselves.
Sometimes they'd bring in, you know, other
people, but most of the time, they were pretty
close in a group. They stayed pretty much within
themselves, and getting involved There really
wasn't that much, at that time, that much of campus
activity like there is now. Of course, we've got
athletes in action type of coming out of John Law
and John Colton, and they get very much involved in
that stuff, but not much of that. Well, they do
community-oriented work. They'll go talk to kids
and sometimes troubled kids, at-risk kids, and
they'll talk to them about drugs or they'll talk to
them about opportunities at school or whatever it
is that they want to talk. Sometimes they'll go out
and clean out an area or they might go ahead and... I
know Marco, he
refereed some games on the boys' club and
basketball games and things like that. Well, this
is the only place I've ever coached. I never
coached until I came here. So I was doing a lot of
OJT. And the difference, I would go every day with
learning. A lot of times I'd go from just office to
office. What do you do here? What do you do here?
When something like this happens, what's your
reaction to that? How do you do this? How do you do
that? I just got a lot of good coaches up there and
got a lot of good advice. And once I think you become
used to doing something, you become a little bit
more confident, especially if you compare it with
other coaches, and it's basically what they're
doing, and so you kind of continue on it. But I
remember in the summertime being able to spend
about four weeks out of the summer with my kids. And
this day and age, there's absolutely no way
because if you aren't out recruiting, you're
going to get run over because everybody is out
recruiting. And we did. We would still spend time
with family. We'd go to the state junior
championship. We'd all pile in the car, and we'd
get one room. There'd be five kids under seven
people in one room sleeping on the floor and
sleeping bags and everything, and then I'd go out.
and recruiting kids and everybody staying at a
motel and going to the pool. But you can't do those
things. You have to get out there, and you better
get the players. You just can't go in there and tell
them. There's a lot more pressure now, I think,
than there was. I think they gave you a little more
leeway. But Martin was glad when he left. I know he
did leave. He left maybe one after. Because he told
me, That's
why he told me that, hey, you're going to have to be
in the station. So he left the floor, Tom, but they
didn't leave the door. Well, I think you could be a
little tougher on kids 26 years ago than you can
now. They're a little more sensitive. They're a
little bit more attuned to the... knowledge of
God, and they're not so, well, try this, you need to
do this, you need to do that. Well, why? Why do I need
to do that? And that's something I don't know about
that. Whereas in the older days, they might not
question it. And sometimes today, they won't
question it, they just won't listen to it. But in
days previously, yeah, they would listen to it.
No,
not necessarily. What we'll do and what we've done
really for the whole time is we'll play our kind of
film and you can do some kind of banquet or
something. And hopefully not, but sometimes it
is. And then we would just, after the meal, go back
to the room, and we'd have a meeting. And we'd
discuss things about the court, starting time,
who we were going to be playing with, possible
obstacles that we were going to face, and that type
of thing. And then just go to bed and get up and get
after the game. Well, you know, golfers really, I
had the hardest time getting to eat. Yeah, well,
they have a nervous time. They say, well, I don't
want to eat breakfast. A lot of times they're just
scared. You know, they're going out and they can't
hold the food. But you have to give them food
because if they don't, about 12 or 13 in the morning
now, they're going to be ripped.
Oh, they drink a lot of soda. They used to. Now
they're more knowledgeable with, like,
caffeine. They can really mess with their... . . . .
.
Not always. Sometimes I did. It depends on the
team, too. I remember one time when we were at
Nationals at North Carolina, we needed a run, and
I'd do it. I thought it came across great. I didn't
have a cut that I wanted. We didn't make the cut or
something like that, but it wasn't really where
we'd go out and win it. Sometimes the best comes
from the players.
If they didn't go ahead, Danny was really good at
that. He would
just, Dan Brady, he would just tell Jimmy to have me
coach him, and they'd just go off like that.
Unwritten. I started out with that, and players
just did not like it. And lots of times players do
not like to be put into a leadership role. but now
they're going to have to pass judgment on their
peers, and that's very uncomfortable. The young
man who I have as his assistant right now, he won the
conference championship at 90 pounds and was
third in the region championship. He just teared
up, and he'd get the whole team together and say,
I'm going to beat your butt today, and you better
play better. I'm going to beat you, and he'd back it
up with a game. And this is how he was. He picked
somebody's gut if he didn't do what he thought he
should have. Here was a great leader, and that's
why we almost won it. Well, yeah, we almost won the
conference in 95 for that. We could
have won it in 96. And we won the regional
championship in 96. That's strange. When I first
got here, I saw Emil Mammolini. Remember Emil? He
said he was the one training program for
Mammolini. I said, ma'am, these guys, they need
something. You're right. They're fights, you
know, they're dumb. He set up a whole training
program. They put him to coach at the University of
Houston. He said, why do you want to go there? All
you can do is run and lift weights. And now, it's the
same. Oh, yeah. I mean, you have Tiger Woods. He
brings it out much more than David D. Dahl. I mean,
these guys are just, they have their weight, they
have their training, and they are really, really
conditioned
athletes. Oh, yeah. Well, we're up, I don't know
what time, but we have the old training of strength
and conditioning training at 6 a.m. And they work
for an hour on that. Now, we're doing that this
week. We're getting everybody together so
everybody sees everything. That's important.
Next week, we're only allowed four hours a day, 20
hours a week. So this cuts into our strength and
conditioning training. I'd ask the children, the
NCAA. We cannot spend more time than you. One of
your questions was, basically, what was the
workload? Well, it was seven days on the time. But
now you can go more than 20 hours. I can't demand a
gym. And this is the tournament time. Practice,
qualify, all of it. So next week, they're on their
own. But like I told them, I am going to review with
the strength base whether you're there or not.
where they're going to
have to come in on their own and work out two times a
week with the same conditions, hearing and
speaking. Wouldn't work with a lot of weight. They
work with more exercise. They work with
stretching. They work with more conditioning,
cardio, that sort of thing. Because so much of what
we do, I'm not even trying to point, we're out
playing, and we're playing the hills over in
Austin, right? We're walking up 18, look back,
yeah, yeah, yeah, all right. Here's the guys
working out every day of the week. Yeah. He was
absolutely worn out carrying his bag and walking
18 holes. To us, it's nothing. What we do now is we
play 36 holes one day and 18 holes the next day. So
there is a lot more conditioning. And days before,
we'd go to turn and play 18 holes, 18 holes, 18
holes. Now, we're restricted because of our time
and playing days. We're only allowed 140-foot
playing days. yearly, or days, and then we're only
allowed 24 plane dates where we actually go out and
compete. So we compress that by playing 36 holes
one day, and 18 holes the second day. That's 54
holes, which is, it kind of speaks to college
tournament, but it only takes up two days. So these
guys really have to be in good shape. Part of that is
stretching and conditioning out during the
winter break.
Probably they'd play nine, hit balls, or kick the
puck, or at least two or three hours.
No, the manufacturers did. Not all of them, but a
lot of them did. David, Gary Hart, was a tour rep for
him in the middle 70s. And he was trying to get the
club out on tour. And these players were such a
radical club. The players on tour had nothing to do
with it. So Gary, being the bright individual he
is, let's go to colleges. Let's go the next step
down and get these people involved with events. So
when they get out on tour, they're going to be there
to play. So he teach some schools, and we were one of
them. And he came in and said, this is what we'd like
to do. And so ever since 1975... He's always been a
great sponsor. That's Carson Swell. He's the
inventor of the Penn Club. He's a guy who invented
the Penn Club. In fact, he invented the rabbit
ears on television. Brilliant. Tylus gets those.
Tylus gets some of those.
Oh, yeah, every member. Every member will get,
initially, when we first started, the university
would buy them. And then, as we got better,
the manufacturers started providing them. Yes,
they don't run. Now, sometimes I go to
tournaments, And
they'll provide . But not normal . They have no .
Well.